# About Me
### ([Xi-CV.html](./Xi-CV.html))([Xi-CV.pdf](./Xi-CV.pdf))

I am the principal designer, implementer and maintainer of the [ATS
programming language system](http://www.ats-lang.org).  Currently, I
am working on [ATS3/Xanadu](https://github.com/githwxi/ATS-Xanadu),
which is an implementation for ATS3, the third edition of ATS.

Professionally, I am currently a tenured associate professor in the
Computer Science Department at Boston University (BU). I studied
Mathematical Logic when I was an undergraduate student at Nanjing
Univeristy, China. And I graduated from the Mathematics Department at
Carnegie Mellon University in 1998 with a PhD degree in Pure and
Applied Logic.
  
Before joining BU in October 2001, I was a tenure-track assistant
professor in the Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering and
Computer Science (ECECS) at University of Cincinnati (UC).

Before joining UC in September 1999, I was a post-doctoral researcher
at Pacific Software Research Centre (PacSoft) working on Formal
Methods. And my supervisor was Prof. [Jim Hook](http://web.cecs.pdx.edu/~hook).

I joined PacSoft in August 1998 after finishing my PhD thesis titled
[Dependent Types in Practical Programming](./../PUBLICATION/MYDATA/DML-thesis.pdf)
under the supervision of Prof. [Frank Pfenning](http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~fp).

In 1995, I made a decision on pursuing my PhD study in the area of
programming language design and implementation. At that time, I was
working on the TPS (Theorem Proving System) project, focussing on
applying the so-called _mating_ method to automated higher-order
theorem proving, and Prof. Peter Andrews, the inventor of the mating
method, supervised my research.

In June 1992, I joined the Mathematics Department at Carnegie
University as a starting PhD student. Prof. Peter Andrews hired me as
a research assistant working on the TPS project, which was partly
funded by NSF. While I majored in Mathematical Logic during my
undergraduate years, I was always deeply attracted to writing
programs. Prof. Andrews gave me an opportunity to work as a research
programmer, which shaped my professional life and beyond. I forever
thank him.
